INF166

Introduction to StarOffice

1 credit

Pre-requisite or Co-requisite: None

New Course

Fall 2004

Professor Lucy Caruso-Deane, Department Chair, 201.447-7214

lcarusodeanebergen.edu



Introduction to StarOffice provides hands-on experience using an 
office-suite product to 

perform common tasks such as basic word-processing, spreadsheet development 
and presentation 

graphics preparation. Students also gain exposure to fundamental 
vector-drawing tools. This 

project-based course will include preparation of documents such as letters, 
memos, flyers, 

reports, tables, charts, single-page spreadsheets and short screen-based 
presentations. 



Objectives:

1. Create, save, edit, print, and format information using the 
word-processing, spreadsheet, 

   and presentation components of StarOffice.

2. Share information among word-processing, spreadsheet and presentation 
graphics documents. 

3. Work with vector graphics.



Course Texts and/or other study materials:

To be determined.



Grade Determinants:

Exams - 75

Hands-on Projects - 25



Course Content:

1. Introduction - open source products: sources and resources. Introduction 
to StarOffice. 

   Introductory remarks concerning file and user interface compatibility 
with Microsoft Office. 

   Learning curve for those already familiar with MS Office.

2. More word-processing. Letters and memos.

3. More word-processing. Flyers and newsletters.

4. More word-processing. Research papers 7 hours total on word-processing.

5. Test 1

6. StarOffice spreadsheet. Text, numbers, formulas simple spreadsheets sales 
reports. 

7. More spreadsheet. Functions, formatting spreadsheets, sales forecasts, 
market reports and 

   forecasts.

8. More spreadsheet. Problem-solving using spreadsheets, grade tracking 6 
hours total on 

   spreadsheet preparation.

9. StarOffice drawing program. Basic 2D shapes, borders, fills, gradients, 
textures rotating, 

   resizing, copying layers, Bezier point editing 3D shapes 2 hours total on 
vector drawing. 

10. Test 2

11. StarOffice presentation graphics. Basic slide show preparation story 
lines, story boards 

    slide layout text entry inserting graphic elements sequencing 
animations, sound, 

    transition Me, Myself and I Presentation.

12. More presentation graphics. Working with slide masters, presentation 
templates, content 

    wizards automatic advance, business presentation 4 hours total on 
presentation graphics. 

13. Integrating StarOffice components. Basic object-linking-and-embedding 
embedding and 

    spreadsheet in a text document, embedding a spreadsheet chart into a 
slideshow, embedding 

    a drawn object into a slideshow.

14. Integrating StarOffice products with other products in Windows primarily 
Microsoft Office 

    documents with complex formatting documents with embedded objects 4 
hours total on 

    integration.

15. Test 3
