            This syllabus is representative of the course content.
           Requirements for individual course sections may vary.



COURSE ID 

COMP140





COURSE NAME

Designing/Developing Web Site





NUMBER OF CREDITS AWARDED FOR COURSE

3 credits





PREREQUISITE OR CO-REQUISITE COURSES 

None





INDICATE IF NEW OR MODIFIED COURSE

REVISED--4 credits to 3 credits 

This course originally required an additional scheduled lab, which is no 
longer part of the course 





NAME AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OR E-MAIL ADDRESS OF DEPARTMENT CHAIR

Thomas Setaro, Department Chair

tsetarobrookdalecc.edu

732-224-2403





DETAILED COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course will teach students how to build Web sites. Topics to be studied 
include lists, tables, frames, style sheets, image mapping and animation.  
Students will learn how to perform customer interaction with forms and 
special controls. Topics explored are examining Web publication and security 
issues, and integrating Office documents into Web sites. Current Web-based 
software tools are used in the course, i.e., Microsoft FrontPage 





OUTLINE OF COURSE OBJECTIVES

The student will be able to build a Web site using a current software tool 
Microsoft FrontPage 2003. 

I. Creating a Web site and working with graphics and hyperlinks

II. Using lists, anchors and web site views

III. Using shared borders and themes and creating tables and frames

IV. Publishing a web site and using templates in a web site

V. Integrating a database with a web site and sing layout table and styles





GRADE DETERMINANTS

AComplete Lab Assignments 1-13

Earn an average test grade of 90 thru 100 



BComplete Lab Assignments 1-12

Earn an average test grade of 85 thru 89



BComplete Lab Assignments 1-12

Earn an average test grade of 80 thru 84

 

CComplete Lab Assignments 1-11

Earn an average test grade of 75 thru 79



CComplete Lab Assignments 1-11

Earn an average test grade of 70 thru 74



DComplete Lab Assignments 1-11

Earn an average test grade of 60 thru 69



A C grade is required to advance to the next course.  



FEarn an average test grade below 60 or fail to successfully complete labs 
1-11. 





TEXTS, JOURNALS, AND OTHER MATERIALS USED IN COURSE

New Perspectives on Microsoft FrontPage 2003 Comprehensive, by Jessica 
Evans, Course Technology 

ISBN 0619213787

Storage: A portable secondary storage media (i.e., floppy, memory stick, zip 
disk) 







SCHEDULE OF TOPICS TO BE COVERED



UNIT : 1

UNIT NAME:Creating a Web Sites and Working with Graphics and Hyperlinks



UNIT OBJECTIVE:To be introduced to the interaction of many different 
components involved in managing a web site and to the essential elements and 
skills involved in developing and building web sites and web pages. 



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:2 weeks



LEARNING EXPERIENCES:



1. Attend Lecture

2. Read Text:

Tutorial 1, Pages FP 3 - 67

Tutorial 2, Pages FP 69  135

3. Complete Lab Assignments:  The tasks to accomplish:



Review the World Wide Web, what servers are, and the use of Internet 
browsers.  Explore existing web pages and web sites on the Internet.  Learn 
the processes of analyzing, designing and planning web sites. 

Use FrontPage 2003 to lay out the structure of a web site.  Create a web 
page with some basic components such as headings, backgrounds, images. 

Understand what HTML is and what it is used for.

Learn about HTML, and be able to evaluate new HTML tags like the META tag.  
Test web page with the browser before closing down a web site. 



LAB ASSIGNMENTS: 



Lab Assignment  1 Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)Page FP 58 - 
65 

Lab Assignment  2 Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)Page FP 127 - 
134 





UNIT : 2

UNIT NAME:Using Lists, Anchors, and Web Site Views



UNIT OBJECTIVE:To examine internal and external hyper linking in web pages, 
to begin to use lists, and learn about the inclusion and manipulation of 
images in web sites. 



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE: 2 weeks



LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

1. Attend Lecture

2. Read Text:

Tutorial 3, Pages FP 139 - 192

3. Complete Lab Assignment



LEARNING OBJECTIVES: The tasks to accomplish:



Learn how to bring web pages and existing files in different formats into a 
web site.  Examine the types of lists available and include lists on web 
pages. 

Study external and internal hyperlinks, and how to insert links into web 
pages.  Understand and test the use of bookmarks and email links, as well as 
home page links.  Insert images in different formats on a web page and 
create image hotspot links. 

Manage a web site by using the built in FrontPage component, the tasks list. 
 Evaluate, view and print new HTML tags. 



LAB ASSIGNMENTS: 

Lab Assignment  3 Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)  Page FP 186 
 192 

 





UNIT :  3

UNIT NAME:  Using Shared Borders and Themes and Creating Tables and Frames





UNIT OBJECTIVE:To examine the process of incorporating sophisticated 
organizational tools like multi-page frames and nested tables into web pages 
and control navigation in a web site. 



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:3 weeks



LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

1. Attend Lecture

2. Read Text:

Tutorial 4, Pages FP 193 - 262

Tutorial 5, Pages FP 265  333

3. Complete Lab Assignments



LEARNING OBJECTIVES: The tasks to accomplish:



Understand and manipulate tables as a means of organizing web pages.  Learn 
how to change table properties, and evaluate HTML tags for tables. 

Understand and manipulate frames and framesets as a way to organize web 
pages.  Learn how to change frame properties, and change target frames for 
framesets. 

Evaluate the new HTML code generated for the use of frames.  Examine and 
manipulate navigational structure and navigation bars in a web site. 

Use shared borders, themes, applet hover buttons, and DHTML components.  
Modify component and applet properties, and examine scripted HTML code. 





LAB ASSIGNMENTS: 

Lab Assignment  4   Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)  Page FP 
257 - 262 



Lab Assignment  5  Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)  Page FP 
327 - 333 









UNIT : 4

UNIT NAME:Publishing a Web Site and using Templates in a Web Site



UNIT OBJECTIVE:To examine ways of interacting with customers of web sites 
using forms and other software component tools, and examine some other web 
page features like site maps and discussion groups. 



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:3 weeks



LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

1. Attend Lecture

2. Read Text:

Tutorial 6, Pages FP 335 - 414

Tutorial 7, Pages FP 419  465

3. Complete Lab Assignments



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The tasks to accomplish:



Understand the use of forms, and add form fields to a forms web page.  Learn 
to control form properties, specify a forms handler, and confirm form 
results. 

Evaluate the extensive HTML code generated by the use of forms.  Understand 
the use of a server, and publish webs to the personal web server. 

Use components in web pages that only work when the site is published to a 
server.  Create a site map by using categories and the categories component. 

Learn to establish shared template and site maps.

Create a dynamic Web template.







LAB ASSIGNMENTS: 

Lab Assignment  6  Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)  Page FP 
402 - 414 



Lab Assignment  7  Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)  Page FP 
460 - 465 





UNIT : 5

UNIT NAME:Integrating a Database and Office components with a Web Site and 
using Layout Table and Styles 



UNIT OBJECTIVE:To examine ways of integrating databases with web sites, 
manipulating office components in web pages, and making web sites more 
uniform in appearance by using cascading style sheets. 



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:4 weeks



LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

1. Attend Lecture

2. Read Text:

Tutorial 8, Pages FP 467 - 552

Tutorial 9, Pages FP 523  583

3. Complete Lab Assignments



LEARNING OBJECTIVES: The tasks to accomplish:



Understand the importance of linking web pages and databases together.  
Learn to insert database regions in web pages, and to query databases on web 
pages. 

Use forms to input data into a database, and establish a data access web 
page.  Examine HTML code that supports database access.  Learn to insert 
office components, like spreadsheets and charts, into a web page.  Create a 
cascading style sheet, and link it to other web pages that will use these 
styles. 

Evaluate HTML code for style sheets and learn to modify default HTML styles. 
 Examine and manipulate web pages directly in HTML mode by using HTML page 
view. 





LAB ASSIGNMENTS: 

Lab Assignment  8 Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice) Page FP 515 
- 521 



Lab Assignment  9 Case Problem  1, 2, 3, or 4  (Student choice)  Page FP 583 
- 589 


















