            This syllabus is representative of the course content.
           Requirements for individual course sections may vary.



COURSE ID 

COMP266 



COURSE NAME

Data Base Using Access





NUMBER OF CREDITS AWARDED FOR COURSE

3 Credits





PREREQUISITE OR CO-REQUISITE COURSES 

None





INDICATE IF NEW OR MODIFIED COURSE

REVISED: 

REVISED:  Change from 4 credits to 3 credits-

This course originally required an additional scheduled lab, which is no 
longer part of the course 







NAME AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OR E-MAIL ADDRESS OF DEPARTMENT CHAIR

Thomas Setaro, Department Chair

tsetarobrookdalecc.edu

732-224-2403





DETAILED COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course will teach the students basic and advanced topics of Microsoft 
Access, including programming and running macros, advanced queries and 
custom forms, integrating Access with other programs, publishing objects on 
the World Wide Web and writing Visual Basic Code. 





OUTLINE OF COURSE OBJECTIVES

The 12 chapters (units) comprising the course are:



I. Introduction of Microsoft Access 2003

II. Creating and Maintaining a Database

III. Querying a Database

IV. Creating Forms and Reports

V. Enhancing Tables Design and Creating Advanced Queries

VI. Creating Custom Forms

VII.  Creating Custom Reports

VIII. Integrating Access with Web and Other Programs

IX. Using Action Queries and Defining Table Relationships

X. Automating Tasks with Macros

XI. Using and Writing Visual Basic Code

XII. Managing and Securing Databases





TEXTS, JOURNALS, AND OTHER MATERIALS USED IN COURSE

New Perspectives on Microsoft Access 2003, Comprehensive by Joseph J. 
Adamski and Kathleen T. Finnegan  ISBN 0-619-20672-1 



Storage: A portable secondary storage media (i.e., floppy, memory stick, zip 
disk) 





GRADE DETERMINANTS



ASuccessfully Complete Lab Assignments 1-12 and Earn an average test grade 
of 90 or above 



BSuccessfully Complete Lab Assignments 1-11 and Earn an average test grade 
of 85 or above 



BSuccessfully Complete Lab Assignments 1-10 and Earn an average test grade 
of 80 to 84 



CSuccessfully Complete Lab Assignments 1-8 and Earn an average test grade of 
70 to 74 



DSuccessfully Complete Lab Assignments 1-8 and Earn an average test grade of 
60 thru 69 



      FEarn an average test grade below 60 or fail to successfully complete 
labs 1-8. 







NUMBER OF PAPERS AND EXAMINATIONS

To be considered acceptable, a lab must be free of all errors and must meet 
all of the requirements outlined by the case problem.  Labs can be 
resubmitted up to 2 weeks after being assigned. All labs must be completed 
and correct by the last day of the class. The student should expect to spend 
at least 2 hours of time outside class for each hour in class.  The Computer 
Science Main Lab is open Mon.-Sat. during Fall and Spring. Hours are posted 
on the outside door and on the Computer Science Website. 







SCHEDULE OF TOPICS TO BE COVERED

UNIT TOPICS AND/OR OUTCOME (OBJECTIVES):



UNIT 1



NAME OF UNIT:Introduction to Microsoft Access

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will view and work with tables.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Define relationships and databases

2. Define a relational database management system

3. Start and exit Access

4. Open existing databases and tables

5. Print tables

6. Work with Queries

7. Create and print forms and reports

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 3

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 1.

3. Complete assignment LAB-1.



UNIT 2



NAME OF UNIT:Creating and Maintaining a Database

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will create, modify and update a table.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:



1. Assign Field Data Types 

2. Specify Primary keys and foreign keys

3. Add records to a table

4. Delete and change records

5. Copy records from another Access database

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 3

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 2.

3. Complete assignment LAB-2.



UNIT 3



NAME OF UNIT:Querying a Database

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will retrieve information from a database table.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Define one-to-many relationships

2. Explain referential integrity

3. Filter data

4. Define record selection criteria for queries

5. Use the Query Window with the design grid

6. Create a calculated field

7. Use aggregate functions

8. Use record group calculations

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 3

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 3.

3. Complete assignment LAB-3.



UNIT 4



NAME OF UNIT:Creating Forms and Reports

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will create a form and report.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create a form using the Form Wizard

2. Change a Forms AutoFormat

3. Navigate a Form

4. Maintain table data using a form

5. Create a form with a main form and sub form

6. Create a report using a Report Wizard

7. Insert a picture

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 7

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 4.

3. Complete assignment LAB-4.



UNIT 5



NAME OF UNIT:Enhancing a Tables Design and creating more advanced queries

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will make a database easier to use.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create Lookup Wizards and Input Masks

2. Create a parameter query

3. Used both the And Or operators in the same query

4. Use different types of queries

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 7

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 5.

3. Complete assignment Lab-5.



UNIT 6



NAME OF UNIT:Customizing Forms

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will create a custom forms.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create a custom form

2. Add a sub form to a form

3. Use a form filter

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 7

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 6.

3. Complete assignment LAB-6.



UNIT 7



NAME OF UNIT:Customizing Reports

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will create a custom report, report with an 
embedded chart and a linked text document. 

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Work with report controls

2. Sub reports

3. Group Totals

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 7



RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

4. Attend class meetings.

5. Read Chapter 7.

6. Complete assignment LAB-7.



UNIT 8



NAME OF UNIT:Integrating Access with the Web and Other Programs

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will create web-enabled information.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Use the Web

2. View HTML files using Internet Explorer

3. Use and create Data Access Pages

4. Create Pivot Tables

5. Use XML

6. Create Hyperlinks

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 7

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 8.

3. Complete assignment LAB-8.



UNIT 9



NAME OF UNIT:Using Action Queries and Defining Table Relationships.

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will use action queries and define table 
relationships. 

 LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create a make-table query

2. Create an append query

3. Create a delete query

4. Join tables

5. Create relationships

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 11

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 9.

3. Complete assignment LAB-9.



UNIT 10



NAME OF UNIT:Automating Tasks with Macros

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will create and run macros.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create a macro

2. Run a macro

3. Add a Skybox action

4. Create a macro group

5. Add a List Box to a form

6. Adding a command button to a form

7. Create a switchboard

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 11

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 10.

3. Complete assignment LAB-10.



UNIT 11



NAME OF UNIT:Writing Visual Basic Code



UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will complete a Database project using Visual 
Basic Code. 

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create Visual Basic Code.

2. Create functions in a standard module

3. Create an event procedure

4. Code a load event procedures for the Query dialog box form

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 11

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 11.

3. Complete assignment LAB-11.



UNIT 12



NAME OF UNIT:Managing and Securing Databases

UNIT OBJECTIVE:The Student will secure a database.

LEARNING OBJECTIVES:The student will be able to:

1. Create a replica

2. Use Performance Analyzer

3. Link Tables

4. Use Startup Options

5. Secure a database

METHOD OF EVALUATION: Test after Chapter 11

RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES: 

1. Attend class meetings.

2. Read Chapter 12.

3. Complete assignment LAB-12.



COMP 266  Microsoft Access 2003

LAB ASSIGNMENTS



Introduction of Microsoft AccessLAB-1Page AC 301

Creating and Maintaining a DatabaseLAB-2Page AC 741

Querying a DatabaseLAB-3Page AC 1221

Creating Forms and Reports LAB-4Page AC 1631

Table Designs and Advanced QueriesLAB-5Page AC 2121

Custom FormsLAB-6Page AC 2781

Custom ReportsLAB-7Page AC 3541

Integrating AccessLAB-8Page AC 4301

Action Queries and RelationshipsLAB-9Page AC 4811

MacrosLAB-10Page AC 5452

VBALAB-11Page AC 5931

SecurityLAB-12Page AC 6341



Name on all work:  Name      266-section no.       Assignment No.

  ex.      John Doe           266-01           Lab1




























