            This syllabus is representative of the course content.
           Requirements for individual course sections may vary.



COURSE ID 

COMP299



COURSE NAME

Computer Science Internship





NUMBER OF CREDITS AWARDED FOR COURSE

3 credits





PREREQUISITE OR CO-REQUISITE COURSES 

Matriculation in Computer Science, 12 credits in Computer Science courses 
and approval by the Computer Science Chairperson and Experiential Learning 
department 





INDICATE IF NEW OR MODIFIED COURSE

NEW





NAME AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OR E-MAIL ADDRESS OF DEPARTMENT CHAIR

Thomas Setaro

tsetarobrookdalecc.edu

732-224-2403





DETAILED COURSE DESCRIPTION

This course will allow the student to gain practical work experience by 
participating in a computer science career related position with an approved 
company or institution. 





OUTLINE OF COURSE OBJECTIVES

The student will gain valuable career experience by actively participating 
in meaningful career tasks. The student will be expected to contribute to 
projects and become a productive member of an organizational team by 
analyzing and solving problems, effectively communicating their ideas and 
solutions, and learning and adapting to new technologies 



GRADE DETERMINANTS

  GradeAverage

  A   90-100

  B85-89

  B80-84

  C75-79

  C70-74

  D60-69

        F         0 - 59 

NUMBER OF PAPERS AND EXAMINATIONS and

SCHEDULE OF TOPICS TO BE COVERED



Meeting 1 (First week of semester) -Meet with advisor to discuss course 
requirements, set up dates for assignments, review required documentation. 



Meeting 2 (Mid point of semester)  Meet with advisor to review progress 
which will include evaluation of journal, outline of paper, and hours 
worked. 



Meeting 3 (Final week of semester)  Meet with advisor to submit final 
version of paper and journal. 



Assignments:

Journal (33)  The student will keep a detailed log of daily activity. The 
entry for each day should include the hours that were worked, the work which 
was done, and what was learned. 

 

Paper (33)  The paper should be a comprehensive outline of the students 
experience. It should include a report on the organization, the role of the 
students position, a summary of the projects which were worked on, and an 
assessment of the students qualifications and preparedness. 



Employer Evaluation (33)  The employer will submit a written evaluation to 
the students advisor which will evaluate the students overall experience. 
They will take into account attendance and reliability, communication, 
willingness to learn, and contribution to the organization. 


















