            This syllabus is representative of the course content.
           Requirements for individual course sections may vary.



COURSE ID 

COMP116



COURSE NAME

Introduction to Digital Programming



NUMBER OF CREDITS AWARDED FOR COURSE

3 credits



PREREQUISITE OR CO-REQUISITE COURSES OR ACADEMIC STANDING

MATH 021-Introductory Algebra or PASSING score on Algebra Basic Skills test



INDICATE IF NEW OR MODIFIED COURSE

REVISED--4 credits to 3 credits 

This course originally required an additional scheduled lab, which is no 
longer part of the course. 





NAME AND TELEPHONE NUMBER OR E-MAIL ADDRESS OF DEPARTMENT CHAIR

Thomas Setaro, Department Chair

tsetarobrookdalecc.edu

732-224-2403





DETAILED COURSE DESCRIPTION  

This course is for students who have not had any prior computer programming 
courses.  Students will obtain first-hand experience in computer programming 
by analyzing problems, designing solutions and writing programs using the 
Visual Basic programming language on a microcomputer.  They will acquire a 
working knowledge of the fundamental tools of computer programming needed 
for further progress: problem organization and analysis, coding diagnosis 
and testing.  They will be able to use a fairly extensive set of Visual 
Basic instructions and commands, and apply them to create solutions to 
problems in the fields of business or mathematics/science. 





OUTLINE OF COURSE OBJECTIVES

I. Unit 1  An introduction to Programming and Visual Basic

II. Using Visual Basic to Create a First Project

III. Variables, Assignment Statements, and Arithmetic

IV. The Selection Process in Visual Basic

V. The Repetition Process in Visual Basic

VI. Working with Arrays in Visual Basic

VII. Using Functions, Stubs, and Modules

The student will be able to:

1. Understand the importance of information systems in organizations. 

2. Discuss the role of computer programs and programming in information 
systems. 

3. List and discuss the six computer operations. 

4. Describe the difference between modern Windows-based computer languages 
and older procedural languages. 

5. Discuss the difference between compiled and interpreted languages. 

List and discuss the steps in the object-oriented, event-driven programming





TEXTS, JOURNALS, AND OTHER MATERIALS USED IN COURSE

Learning to Program With Visual Basic, Packaged with Visual Basic 6.0, 
Patrick G. McKeown and Craig A. Piercy, John Wiley  Sons, Inc, ISBN:  
0-471-41862-5 





GRADE DETERMINANTS

To be considered acceptable, a lab must be free of all syntax and logic 
errors and must meet all of the requirements outlined by the problem 
statement. Labs must also meet documentation and style requirements as 
outlined by the instructor. The final grade requirements for the course will 
be: 



GRADEREQUIREMENTS



AComplete Lab Assignments 1-12

Earn an average test grade of 90 thru 100 



BComplete Lab Assignments 1-10

Earn an average test grade of 85 thru 89



BComplete Lab Assignments 1-10

Earn an average test grade of 80 thru 84

 

CComplete Lab Assignments 1-7

Earn an average test grade of 75 thru 79



      CComplete Lab Assignments 1-7

Earn an average test grade of 70 thru 74



DComplete Lab Assignments 1-7

Earn an average test grade of 60 thru 69



A C grade is required to advance to the next course.  



FEarn an average test grade below 60 or fail to successfully complete labs 
1-7. 



INCOMPLETE:  The course instructor may grant a grade of incomplete in cases 
of documented hardship or extenuating circumstances. The student must have 
completed at least 80 of the total course work to qualify. The student must 
obtain a signed Incomplete Application form from the instructor on or before 
the last class meeting date. If the required work is not completed by the 
end of the second week of the new term, the grade of INC is changed to an F. 





NUMBER OF PAPERS AND EXAMINATIONS

The student must print out and submit the following for each programming 
problem: 



1. A listing of the program code

Note:  The first three lines in the General Declaration section must have 
the following comments at a minimum: 

Student name 

COMP 116 and section no.

Program problem no. (Lab 1, etc.)



2. A print out of the form with program results using a Print Form button. 
The form must also include a label with the students name and the lab number 
at the bottom. 







SCHEDULE OF TOPICS TO BE COVERED



UNIT 1 (CHAPTER:  1)

NAME OF UNIT:  An Introduction to Programming and Visual Basic



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to problem solving and computer 
programming using Visual Basic, Input/Processing/Output tables, and 
pseudocode. 



METHOD OF EVALUATION:  Participate in computer lab workshop



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:  1 week



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The student will be able to:

Understand the importance of information systems in organizations. 

Discuss the role of computer programs and programming in information 
systems. 

List and discuss the six computer operations. 

Describe the difference between modern Windows-based computer languages and 
older procedural languages. 

Discuss the difference between compiled and interpreted languages. 

List and discuss the steps in the object-oriented, event-driven programming 
process. 



RECOMMEND LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

Attend class meetings.

Read Introduction and Chapter 1 in text.

Do recommended exercises in Chapter 1.

Participate in computer lab workshop.



Required Lab Assignment:

None for this chapter



Optional Lab Assignment:

None for this chapter





UNIT 2 (CHAPTER:  2)



NAME OF UNIT:  Using Visual Basic to Create a First Project



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to the Visual Basic development 
environment and to have them create and save a first Visual Basic project. 



MTHOD OF EVALUATION:  Successful completion of lab 1



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:  1 week



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The student will be able to:

Point out the elements of the Visual Basic development environment, 
including the title bar, menu bar, toolbar, initial form window, Toolbox, 
Project Explorer window, Properties window, and Form Layout window. 

Discuss the use of the form in creating a Visual Basic project.  

Understand controls and their properties. 

Use the label, command button, and image controls from the Toolbox to create 
an interface on the form. 

Use a message box for output from the project.  

Use the Code window to write the event procedure for a command button.  

List the different types of files that make up a Visual Basic project and be 
able to save a project to disk. 

Use the various Visual Basic help facilities to answer questions or solve 
problems encountered when creating a project. 



RECOMMEND LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

Attend class meetings.

Read Chapter 2 in text.

Do recommended Its Your Turn exercises throughout Chapter 2.

Required Lab Assignment:

Lab 1  Page 54, Project 1

Optional Lab Assignment: None for this chapter







UNIT 3 (CHAPTER:  3)



NAME OF UNIT: Variables, Assignment Statements, and Arithmetic



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to the uses of variables, 
assignment statements, and arithmetic to solve fairly simple problems using 
Visual Basic. 



METHOD OF EVALUATION:  Successful completion of labs 2 and 3.



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:  2 weeks



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The student will be able to:

Declare and use different types of variables in their projects.  

Use text boxes for event-driven input and output.  

Use a four-step process to write code for event procedures  

Write Visual Basic instructions to carry out arithmetic operations.  

Describe the hierarchy of operations for arithmetic.  

Understand how to store the result of arithmetic operations in variables 
using assignment statements. 

Use comments to explain the purpose of program statements.  

Discuss using Visual Basic functions to carry out commonly used operations. 

Use command buttons to clear text boxes, print a form with the PrintForm 
method, and exit the project. 

Describe the types of errors that commonly occur in a Visual Basic project 
and their causes. 



RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

Attend class meetings.

Read Chapter 3 in text.

Do recommended Its Your Turn exercises throughout Chapter 3.

Required Lab Assignments:

Lab 2  Page 98, Project 1

Lab 3  Page 100, Project 9

Optional Lab Assignment: None







UNIT 4 (CHAPTER:  4)



NAME OF UNIT:  The Selection Process 



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to the decision making process in 
Visual Basic including two-alternative decisions and multiple-alternative 
decisions. 



METHOD OF EVALUATION:  Successful completion of lab 4 and 8.



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:  2 weeks



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The student will be able to:

Understand the importance of the selection process in programming.  

Describe the various types of decisions that can be made in a computer 
program. 

Discuss the statement forms used in Visual Basic to make decisions.  

Understand the various comparison operators used in implementing decisions 
in Visual Basic. 

Use the If-Then-Else, If-Then-ElseIf, and Case decision structures.  

Use the list box control to select from a list of alternatives.  

Work with complex comparison structures and nested decisions to handle more 
sophisticated selection processes. 

Use the scroll bar to input integer values.  

Use the FormLoad event to execute a procedure when a form is loaded.  

Work with the debugging toolbar to find program errors.  



RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

Attend class meetings.

Read Chapter 4 in text.

Do recommended Its Your Turn exercises throughout Chapter 4.

Required Lab Assignments:

Lab 4  Page 144, Project 1

Optional Lab Assignment: Lab 8  Page 147, Project 11





UNIT 5 (CHAPTER:  5)



NAME OF UNIT:  The Repetition Process 



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to the repetition process in 
Visual Basic including event-driven, determinate, and indeterminate 
(data-driven) loops. 



METHOD OF EVALUATION:  Successful completion of labs 5 and 6.



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:  2 weeks



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The student will be able to:

Understand the importance of the repetition process in programming.  

Describe the various types of loops that can be carried out in an OOED 
computer language. 

Discuss the statement forms used in Visual Basic to handle repetition, and 
understand the use of pre- and post-test loops. 

Use the event-driven, For-Next, While-loop, and Until-loop repetition 
structures in creating projects. 

Understand the concepts of variable scope and static variables.  

Use the combo box control to select from a list of alternatives.  

Understand the use of files to permanently store data and information.  

Work with nested loops.  

Create an executable version of a Visual Basic project.  

Use debugging tools in Visual Basic to find and correct errors. 



RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

Attend class meetings.

Read Chapter 5 in text.

Do recommended Its Your Turn exercises throughout Chapter 5.



Required Lab Assignment:

Lab 5  Page 199, Project 1

Lab 6  Page 201, Project 10

Optional Lab Assignment:

 None



UNIT 6 (CHAPTER:  6)



NAME OF UNIT:  Working with Arrays



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to the use of arrays in Visual 
Basic for working with lists of data and multiple controls with the same 
name. 



METHOD OF EVALUATION:  Successful completion of labs 7, 9 and 10.



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:   3 weeks



LEARNING EXPERIENCES:  The student will be able to:

Understand the use of control, list, and table arrays in Visual Basic 
projects. 

Use control arrays to work with groups of controls using a single name.  

Work with check boxes and option buttons.  

Describe the difference between arrays and combo boxes, list boxes, and 
similar controls. 

Declare the maximum index value for a list array and understand the errors 
that occur when declared upper limits on index values are exceeded. 

Input data into an array from the keyboard or a file using loops.  

Manipulate array data to find the sum and average of array values, the 
largest or smallest value in an array, or a particular value. 

Work with multiple arrays to match values in one array to those in another. 

Output the result of array processing to a control, the printer, or the 
immediate window. 

Declare, input, process, and output two-dimensional arrays.  

Use Step operations to step though an array operation to find and correct an 
error. 



RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES:

Attend class meetings.

Read Chapter 6 in text.

Do recommended Its Your Turn exercises throughout Chapter 6.

Required Lab Assignment:

Lab 7  Page 256, Project 1

Optional Lab Assignment:

Lab 9  Page 258, Project 4 

Lab 10  Page 259, Project 9







UNIT 7 (CHAPTER:  7)



NAME OF UNIT:  Using Functions, Subs, and Modules



UNIT OBJECTIVE:  To introduce the student to the use of procedures, 
functions, and modules in Visual Basic. 



METHOD OF EVALUATION:  Successful completion of labs 11 and 12.



ESTIMATED TIME TO ACHIEVE:  2 weeks



LEARNING OBJECTIVES:  The student will understand:

Understand the importance of general procedures and modules in programming 
in Visual Basic. 

Describe the difference between event procedures and general procedures. 

Create general procedures by using the menu system and by entering them 
directly. 

Understand the difference between the two types of general procedures: sub 
procedures (subs) and functions. 

Describe the relationship between arguments and parameters in general 
procedures. 

Write functions to return single values and sub procedures to process 
multiple values. 

Create sub procedures to search, sort, and print arrays. 

Use the Code module to declare variables globally or create global general 
procedures 

Understand the difference between passing by value and passing by reference 
in sub procedures. 



RECOMMENDED LEARNING EXPERIENCES:



Attend class meetings.

Read Chapter 7 in text.

Do recommended Its Your Turn exercises throughout Chapter 7.

Required Lab  Assignment:

Lab 11   Page 312, Project 1

Optional Lab Assignment:

Lab 12   Page 316, Project 12 


















