CUMBERLAND COUNTY COLLEGE





Course:  CS 218  Web Page Dynamics



Credits: 4



Prerequisites 

      None

      

Description 

      Introduces students to the techniques and methods used in the design 
and development of a dynamic web site. Students will use advanced web site 
development tools to create dynamic text, images, rollovers movies and 
animation. 



Learning Outcomes 

      After the completion of this course, students should be able to:

 Design and build a web site structure using Dreamweaver MX, understand the 
use of the site map, and design a navigation strategy using hyperlinks, 
navigation bars , rollover buttons, images, image maps and jump menus 

 Use Dreamweaver productivity tools and functions to lay out a web site with 
tables, frames and layers design a table page layout using either standard 
or layout views use Dreamweaver tools to create and manage frameset and the 
frames and lay out a web site using layers and convert the layers to tables 
to provide consistent appearance in different browsers 

 Add Dynamic HTML through Dreamweaver MX to add functionality to web sites 
create and manipulate layers create Dreamweaver MX behaviors and event 
handlers to control layers and create simple animation using layers on a 
timeline 

 Describe Flash MX main components including the timeline, stage, work area, 
toolbox and panels and utilize the drawing and color tools 

 Use the timeline to create animation knowledge of frame types including 
blank keyframes, keyframes, and frames create a frame by frame animation 
adjust animations using onion skins and free transform tool insert, delete, 
copy and reverse frames on the timeline 

 Create shape tweening text and multiple shape tweening animations create 
animating gradients use layer properties in animations create graphic 
symbols and instances for animation create motion tweening animations and 
the use of motion guides in animations 

 Create rollover buttons work with static, dynamic and input text in 
animations use of actionscript basics and publishing and exporting movies. 



Topical Outline

 Web Site Management

 Web Site Layout

 Dynamic HTML

 Interface and Drawing and Color Tools

 Animation Basics and Shape Tweening

 Motion Tweening and Bitmaps

 Buttons and ActionScripting Basics

 Working With Text and Publisning and Exporting



Texts

      Flash Professional  Hands On Training by Gonzalez: Peach Pit Press.

      Macromedia Dreamweaver  Hands On Training by Short, Green: Peach Pit 
Press. 



Student Assessment

(Assessment may be accomplished through projects, portfolios, exams, 
presentations and/or papers) 



Academic Integrity

Plagiarism is cheating.  Plagiarism is presenting in written work, in public 
speaking, and in oral reports the ideas or exact words of someone else 
without proper documentation. 



Whether the act of plagiarism is deliberate or accidental ignorance of the 
proper rules for handling material is no excuse, plagiarism is, indeed, a 
criminal offense. 

As such, a plagiarized paper or report automatically receives a grade of 
ZERO and the student may receive a grade of F for the semester at the 
discretion of the instructor. 



Note

If you are having difficulty with work in this class tutoring is available 
through the Success Center.  If think that you might have a learning 
disability, contact Project Assist at 856.691.1800, x282 for information on 
assistance that can be provided to eligible students. 
