CUMBERLAND COUNTY COLLEGE





Course:  CS 132  Web Page Development I



Credits: 4



Prerequisites 

None



Description 

      Introduces the student to the fundamental concepts and techniques used 
for the design and development of web pages using Hyper Text Markup Language 
(HTML), XHTML, Cascading Styles Sheets, and other multimedia Web Utilities. 





Learning Outcomes 

      After the completion of this course, students should be able to:

 Know the basic principles of Web documents create an HTML document view an 
HTML file using a web browser use HTML tags for text, headings paragraphs, 
and lists insert character tag into an HTML document insert an inline 
graphic image into an HTML document add special characters to an HTML 
document and insert horizontal lines into an HTML document 

 Create hypertext links between elements within a web page create hypertext 
links between web pages create hypertext links to web pages on the Internet 
distinguish between and be able to use absolute and relative pathnames and 
create hypertext links to various Internet resources, including FTP server 
and newsgroups 

 Know how HTML handles color create a color scheme for a web page work with 
font sizes, colors, and types place a background image on a web page define 
colors for a web page and for specific characters know the different image 
file formants control the placement and appearance of images on a web page 
and work with client-side image maps 

 Create text and graphical tables using HTML create table headers and 
captions control the appearance of a table and table text create table cells 
that span several rows or columns use nested tables to enhance page design 

 Create frames for a web site control the appearance and placement of frames 
control the behavior of hyper text links on a web page with frames use the 
reserved target names to specify a target for a hypertext link create a web 
page that is viewable by browsers that support frames and by those that do 
not and modify the appearance of frame borders 

 Know about CGI scripts know the various parts of an online form create form 
elements create a hidden field on a form work with form attributes know how 
to send data from a form to a CGI script and know how to send form 
information without using CGI scripts 

 Create inline styles, embedded styles, and style sheets understand style 
precedence and style inheritance use cascading style sheets to format 
paragraphs, lists, and heading s design a style for hyper text links in 
their four conditions define document content with class and id attributes 
and create styles for them mark document content with the <div> and <span> 
tags and create styles for them and use cascading styles sheets to design 
page layout 

 Understand general concepts of JavaScript and work with variables, data, 
expressions, and operations of the JavaScript Language. 



Topical Outline

 Developing a Basic Web Page

 Adding Hypertext Links to a Web Page

 Designing a Web Page

 Designing a Web Page with Tables

 Using Frames in a Web Site

 Creating Web Page Forms

 Working with Cascading Style Sheets

 Introduction to JavaScript



Texts

      New Perspectives HTML and XHTML by Carey, 4th edition: Course Tech.



Student Assessment

(Assessment may be accomplished through projects, portfolios, exams, 
presentations and/or papers) 



Academic Integrity

Plagiarism is cheating.  Plagiarism is presenting in written work, in public 
speaking, and in oral reports the ideas or exact words of someone else 
without proper documentation. 



Whether the act of plagiarism is deliberate or accidental ignorance of the 
proper rules for handling material is no excuse, plagiarism is, indeed, a 
criminal offense. 

As such, a plagiarized paper or report automatically receives a grade of 
ZERO and the student may receive a grade of F for the semester at the 
discretion of the instructor. 



Note

If you are having difficulty with work in this class tutoring is available 
through the Success Center.  If think that you might have a learning 
disability, contact Project Assist at 856.691.1800, x282 for information on 
assistance that can be provided to eligible students. 
