            This syllabus is representative of the course content.
           Requirements for individual course sections may vary.

Salem Community College MAT 115 Course Syllabus



MAT115 Fundamental of Mathematics for Nursing: Credits: 3:0:3, 
Pre-requisites:MA 91 or the demonstration of an 

equivalent mathematical competency.

Contact Karen Mattison (856) 351-2672, kmattisonsalemcc.edu

Course Description: This course is designed to provide nursing students with 
the mathematical concepts and skills 

necessary for solving pharmacology problems.  Topics include a brief review 
of arithmetic for medical dosage 

calculations an in-depth coverage of the metric, apothecary and household 
systems converting from one system to 

another oral medications Parenteral therapy and calculating the rate of flow 
of infusions and solutions. Place in College 

Curriculum: This course is specifically designed as a required course for 
practical nursing students.  Students may use 

this as a mathematics elective in some other programs at the college.

Course Performance Objective: 1:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 2:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 3:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 4:  The student will perform computations by 
mastering the following mathematical 

concepts.

Course Performance Objective 5:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 6:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 7:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 8:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 9:  The student will interpret a physicians 
order and complete a medication 

administration record.

Course Performance Objective 10:  The student will identify the following 
parts of each drug label. 

Course Performance Objective 11:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 12:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Course Performance Objective 13:  The student will perform computations 
accurately by mastering the following 

mathematical concepts.

Required Text:  Ogden, Sheila.  Calculation of Drug Dosages, 8th Ed., Mosby 
Publishing Co., 2007. 

Course Activities: Verbal lecture presentations combined with classroom 
activities are used to introduce content areas 

which will be reinforced through homework assignments.

Course Requirements and Means of Evaluation: Unit tests, quizzes, final exam

THE STUDENT MUST RECEIVE A GRADE OF 78 (C) OR HIGHER IN ORDER TO SATISFY THE 
MATHEMATICS 

PREREQUISITE FOR ENTRANCE INTO THE NURSING PROGRAM.

Grading Scale: 

93  100  A, 90  92  A-, 88  89  B, 83  87  B, 80  82  B-, 78  79  C, 73  77  
C, 70  72  C-, 68  69  D, 

60  67  D, 59  below  F, Failure due to attendance  FA.

Course Outline:

I. Chapter 1:  Fractions: A. Lowest Common Denominator, B. Addition of 
Fractions, C. Subtractions of Fractions, 

D. Multiplication of Fractions, E. Division of Fractions, F. Reduction of a 
Complex Fraction 

II. Chapter 2:  Decimals: A. Addition and Subtraction of Decimals, B. 
Multiplication of Decimals, C. Rounding a Decimal 

Fraction, D. Division of Decimals, E. Conversion

III. Chapter 3:  Percents

IV.Chapter 4:  Ratios

V. Chapter 5:  Solving Simple Proportion Problem

VI. Chapter 6:  Metric and Household Measurements: A. Metric Measurements, 
B. Household Measurements 

VII. Chapter 7:  Apothecary and Household Measurements

VIII. Chapter 8:  Equivalents between Apothecary and Metric Measurements

IX. Chapter 9:  Interpretation of the Physicians Orders

X. Chapter 10:  How to Read Drug Labels

XI. Chapter 12:  Oral Dosages

XII. Chapter 13:  Parenteral Dosages

XIII. Chapter 15:  Intravenous Flow Rates
